https://pynative.com/python-basic-exercise-for-beginners/
Home » Python Exercises » Python Basic Exercise for Beginners
Python Basic Exercise for Beginners
Updated on: August 29, 2024 | 510 Comments

This essential Python exercise helps Python beginners learn necessary Python skills quickly.

Immerse yourself in the practice of Python’s foundational concepts, such as loops, control flow, data types, operators, list, strings, input-output, and built-in functions. This beginner’s exercise is sure to elevate your understanding of Python.

Also, See:

Python Quizzes: Solve quizzes to test your knowledge of fundamental concepts.
Python Basics: Learn the basics to solve this exercise.
What questions are included in this Python fundamental exercise?

The exercise contains 15 Python programs to solve, ranging from beginner to intermediate difficulty.
The hints and solutions are provided for each question.
Tips and essential learning resources accompany each question. These will assist you in solving the exercise and empower you with the knowledge to tackle similar problems in the future, boosting your confidence and capability. As you progress, you’ll become more familiar with the basics of Python.
Use Online Code Editor to solve exercises.

This Python exercise covers questions on the following topics:

Python for loop and while loop
Python list, set, tuple, dictionary, input, and output
Also, try to solve the basic Python Quiz for beginners

Exercise 1: Calculate the multiplication and sum of two numbers
Given two integer numbers, write a Python code to return their product only if the product is equal to or lower than 1000. Otherwise, return their sum.
给定两个整数，编写一个 Python 代码，仅当乘积等于或小于 1000 时才返回它们的乘积。否则，返回它们的和。

Given 1:

number1 = 20
number2 = 30
Expected Output:

The result is 600
Given 2:

number1 = 40
number2 = 30
Expected Output:

The result is 70